= PayPal Recurring Billing

PayPal Express Checkout API Client for recurring billing.

== Installation

  gem install paypal-recurring

== Usage

First, you need to set up your credentials:

  require "paypal/recurring"

  PayPal::Recurring.configure do |config|
    config.sandbox = true
    config.username = "seller_1308793919_biz_api1.simplesideias.com.br"
    config.password = "1308793931"
    config.signature = "AFcWxV21C7fd0v3bYYYRCpSSRl31AzaB6TzXx5amObyEghjU13.0av2Y"
  end

Then, you can request a new payment authorization:

  ppr = PayPal::Recurring.new({
    :return_url   => "http://example.com/paypal/thank_you",
    :cancel_url   => "http://example.com/paypal/canceled",
    :ipn_url      => "http://example.com/paypal/ipn",
    :description  => "Awesome - Monthly Subscription",
    :amount       => "9.00",
    :currency     => "USD"
  })

  response = ppr.checkout
  puts response.checkout_url if response.valid?

You need to redirect your user to the url returned by <tt>response.checkout_url</tt>.
After the user accepts or rejects your payment request, he will be redirected to one of those urls you specified.
The return url will receive two parameters: <tt>PAYERID</tt> and <tt>TOKEN</tt>. You can use the <tt>TOKEN</tt>
parameter to identify your user on your database.

If you need to retrieve information about your buyer, like address or e-mail, you can use the
<tt>checkout_details()</tt> method.

  ppr = PayPal::Recurring.new(:token => "EC-05C46042TU8306821")
  response = ppr.checkout_details

Now, you need to request payment. The information you provide here should be exactly the same when you started
the checkout process.

  ppr = PayPal::Recurring.new({
    :token       => "EC-05C46042TU8306821",
    :payer_id    => "WTTS5KC2T46YU",
    :amount      => "9.00",
    :description => "Awesome - Monthly Subscription"
  })
  response = ppr.request_payment
  response.approved?
  response.completed?

Finally, you need to create a new recurring profile.

  ppr = PayPal::Recurring.new({
    :amount      => "9.00",
    :currency    => "USD",
    :description => "Awesome - Monthly Subscription",
    :ipn_url     => "http://example.com/paypal/ipn",
    :frequency   => 1,
    :token       => "EC-05C46042TU8306821",
    :period      => :monthly,
    :reference   => "1234",
    :payer_id    => "WTTS5KC2T46YU",
    :start_at    => Time.now,
    :failed      => 1,
    :outstanding => :next_billing
  })

  response = ppr.create_recurring_profile
  puts response.profile_id

You can manage your recurring profile.

  ppr = PayPal::Recurring.new(:profile_id => "I-VCEL6TRG35CU")

  ppr.suspend
  ppr.reactivate
  ppr.cancel

=== What information do I need to keep?

You should save two paramaters to your database: <tt>TOKEN</tt> and <tt>PROFILEID</tt>.
<tt>TOKEN</tt> is required when user returns to your website after he authorizes (or not) the billing process. You
need to save it so you can find him later. You can remove this info after payment and recurring profile are set.

The <tt>PROFILEID</tt> allows you to manage the recurring profile, like canceling billing when an user don't
want to use your service anymore.

<b>NOTE:</b> TOKEN will expire after approximately 3 hours.

== TO-DO

* handle Instant Payment Notifications (IPN)

== Maintainer

* Nando Vieira (http://nandovieira.com.br)

== License

(The MIT License)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
